






   Open Software Foundation                         H. Yu (Hewlett Packard)
   Request For Comments: 87.0                   M. Burati (Hewlett Packard)
   December 1995



                            DCE 1.2 GLOBAL GROUPS
                           FUNCTIONAL SPECIFICATION


   1. INTRODUCTION

      It is a limitation of the current implementation of DCE security that
      groups can contain only _local_ members, i.e., can contain only
      principals that are registered in the same cell as the group.  The
      purpose of the DCE 1.2 Global Groups work is to remove this
      limitation, i.e., to provide the ability for any DCE group to contain
      _foreign_ principals -- and for that membership to be reflected in
      EPAC's in such a way that it can be interpreted globally by ACL
      managers (i.e., is usable in ACL's on protected objects in any
      arbitrary DCE cell).

      This feature responds to requirement I1 of OSF-RFC 8.1, and it
      completes the DCE authorization model to be truly global and uniform
      (modulo some release-schedule limitations -- see below).


   2. TARGET

      The target audience for this functional specification is vendors
      supporting multi-cell group environment and customers planning to use
      this functionality.


   3. GOALS AND NON-GOALS

      It is a goal of this work to provide membership operations for a
      foreign principal as a member of a local group.

      It is a goal of this work to provide the Privilege Server
      functionality for inclusion of foreign groups in EPAC's on PTGT
      requests.

      It is not a goal of this work, for DCE 1.2.2 release at least, to
      validate the membership in a third party cell group (see section 6.2,
      below).

      It is not a goal of this work, for DCE 1.2.2 release at least, to
      provide Least Privilege functionality (see section 6.1, below).





   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 1







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



   4. TERMINOLOGY

        (a) *Global group*

            A group that includes both a Cell identifier and a Group
            identifier (where identifier is a name or UUID).

        (b) *Foreign*

            Originating from a cell other than the local one.

        (c) *PAC*

            Privilege Attribute Certificate.  DCE 1.0.x-based DCE
            credentials.

        (d) *EPAC*

            Extended Privilege Attribute Certificate.  DCE 1.1-based DCE
            credentials.

        (e) *Pseudo-principal node*

            A fake principal node in a Registry datastore, used to
            implement the global group feature.  See section 6 for details.

        (f) *Third-party group*

            When a client principal in CellA makes a request to a server in
            CellB, claiming membership in a group in CellC, then CellC is
            called a third-party group.  See section 6.2 for details.

        (g) *Migration*

            In releases since OSF DCE 1.1, there is support for migration
            between releases in the security server to ensure that new
            features are disabled until all security replicas within a cell
            can implement them.


   5. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS

      This functionality will not affect the existing security behavior,
      however servers will now be able to acquire foreign group memberships
      in EPAC's.









   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 2







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



   6. FUNCTIONAL DEFINITION

      With this work, a registry administrator will be able to add a
      foreign principal as a member of a local group.  To accomplish this,
      a *pseudo-principal* node is created in the local cell registry for
      the foreign principal, to maintain its membership information.  This
      pseudo-node is intended to be implemented as internal registry data,
      therefore is not visible to the administrators or users.  However
      this may change in the future.  During an intercell PAC or EPAC
      request, this pseudo-node is examined and its membership information
      returned to the Privilege Server for inclusion in the requested EPAC.

      Work for DCE 1.2.2 includes:

        (a) DCE administration enhancements for group membership commands
            (`dcecp').

        (b) `secd' support for foreign principals as members of local
            groups.

        (c) Privilege server support.

        (d) Database conversion, migration, and `sec_salvage_db' support.

   6.1. Intercell PTGT Requests and Least Privilege.

      By default, when a user logs in to CellA, the security runtime
      obtains a list of all groups the user is a member of in that cell,
      and specifies that list of groups in the request for a PTGT.

      When obtaining an intercell PTGT, we don't want the CellA privilege
      server to have to talk to CellB's privilege server: once to obtain
      the list of foreign groups that principalA is a member of, and then
      to make the intercell PTGT request.  By default, the intercell PTGT
      request to CellB will result in CellB's privilege server adding all
      CellB-groups that principalA is a member of to the generated EPAC.
      This doesn't provide for the "Least Privilege" case, where the caller
      does not want any privileges, except for those that are specifically
      being requested, to be granted.  This "Least Privilege" functionality
      is considered a future (post-1.2.2) enhancement (perhaps via a well-
      known ERA?).

   6.2. Third-Party Group Summary

      CellB can believe the group membership specified in a PTGT request
      from a privilege server in CellA for the case of groups local to
      CellA, and can verify membership for foreign groups that are actually
      from CellB (i.e., foreign with respect to that EPAC, but local with
      respect to CellB's registry).  A problem arises only when the request
      from CellA to CellB contains groups from CellC.  We call these
      *third-party groups*.



   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 3







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



      Possible solutions to this problem include, but may not be limited
      to:

        (a) Reject all requests containing third-party groups.

        (b) Allow the request to continue after silently removing third-
            party groups from the request.

        (c) Don't verify the third-party groups, but include them anyway.

        (d) Require CellB's privilege server to contact all third-party
            (CellC) registries to verify all third-party group memberships.

        (e) Create a mechanism whereby the request can specify whether all
            requested groups are necessary.  By default, the privilege
            server would do the equivalent of (b) above.  If the request
            specified that it needed all groups to be verified to complete
            its work, then CellB's privilege server would perform the
            equivalent of (d) above.  In that case, if it couldn't verify
            the membership of any third-party group, the entire request
            would be denied.  One possible mechanism for specifying that
            third-party groups be verified is via a well-known ERA attached
            to the EPAC.

      Solution (a) above may be too limiting, in that the caller may not
      have known (or cared) that it was specifying a third-party group, but
      the request is rejected anyway.  In that respect, (a) is an
      undesirable solution.

      Solution (b) allows the request to continue in the event of an
      incidental (or don't-care) inclusion of a third-party group, but it
      doesn't provide a mechanism for a client to verify a third-party
      group if that is actively desired.  We think this approach can serve
      reasonably well as a first cut for the global group functionality,
      and also meet DCE 1.2.2 schedule demand.

      Solution (c) is too insecure and should not be considered.

      Solution (d) is too expensive in the default case, and thus should
      not be considered.

      Solution (e) is potentially a better solution than (b), providing
      valuable extra functionality.  But due to DCE 1.2.2 release time
      frame, we have determined that the value of adding this functionality
      is not worth the cost of the registry performance hit, and of the
      extra development time necessary to provide this functionality.

      In the cases of (c), (d) and (e) above, whether or not the privilege
      server will even allow third-party groups in the request will be
      determined by that privilege server's own policy (possibly via an ERA
      on the policy object).



   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 4







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



      For the DCE 1.2.2 release, the only solution that provides the
      desired functionality and fits within the project's time frame is
      solution (b), so that is what will be provided.

      NOTE: Providing any solution like (d) or (e) above means figuring out
      how a privilege server in CellB could even possibly locate a
      privilege server in CellC, given that the only information that is
      available at that point is the UUID of the other cell.  The UUID can
      be used to figure out the `krbtgt/CellC' cellname.  It is possible to
      just convert `krbtgt/CellC' to `/.../CellC', and use that to locate
      CellC's privilege server in the presence of the Hierarchical Cells
      feature.

      LIMITATION: When principalA in CellA is a member of a CellB group,
      then by default principalA's EPAC will not include that CellB group
      in its membership list.  So if, say, FileA in CellA allows access to
      that CellB-group, principalA may not be able to access FileA since
      there is no indication in CellA that principalA has group membership
      in Cellb.


   7. USER INTERFACES

      `dcecp' must be enhanced for this work.  The command syntax is
      similar to local group member operations.  The difference is that
      `<princ>' can be a valid global principal name, e.g.,
      `/.../<cell_name>/<principal_name>'.  Pre-DCE 1.2.2, `dcecp' member
      operation implementation parses out a principal's cell name, and only
      the local principal name is passed to the security server.  With DCE
      1.2.2, `dcecp' will pass the principal name from its commands,
      without any parsing, to the security server.  This may require
      updating existing tests if they have different assumptions.
      Following are the `dcecp' commands that must be extended for
      supporting foreign principal member operations.

        (a) `group add <grp> -member <princ>'

        (b) `group remove <grp> -member <princ>'

        (c) `group list <grp>'

      `rgy_edit' will also support foreign principals as local group
      members with the following commands:

        (a) `member group_name [-a member_list] [-r member_list]'

        (b) `view pgo_name -m'







   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 5







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



   8. API'S

      We reuse the existing API's: `sec_rgy_pgo_add_member()',
      `sec_rgy_pgo_delete_member()', `sec_rgy_pgo_is_member()', and
      `sec_rgy_pgo_get_members()'.

      For these API's, the `person_name' parameter, for pre-DCE 1.2.2, can
      only be a local principal name; now it can be a global name,
      indicating both cell name and principal name.  For
      `sec_rgy_pgo_get_members()', the returned `member_list' parameter
      holds a list of principal names, or global names for foreign
      principals.


   9. REMOTE INTERFACES

      No new interfaces are introduced for this work in this release.  We
      are reusing the existing member propagation protocols for servers.
      See the Compatibility section, below, for more information.


   10. MANAGEMENT INTERFACES

      `dcecp' and `rgy_edit' commands for multi-cell group operations are
      the same as local group operations.


   11. RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS

      As noted above (in section 6), this work (for release 1.2.2 at least)
      will not validate the membership of a third-party cell group, and
      will not provide Least Privilege functionality.


   12. OTHER COMPONENT DEPENDENCIES

      `dcecp' needs to be enhanced as described above.


   13. COMPATIBILITY

      All security servers in a cell that is running DCE 1.2.2 need to
      migrate forward to support this new functionality.  Pre-DCE 1.2.2
      security servers don't support multi-cell group operations;
      replication of such events and new data to those servers would not
      succeed.  Because of that, migration is required to ensure all
      servers running in a cell can implement this new functionality.  More
      details about migration can be found in DCE 1.1 Warranty Patch
      release document.





   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 6







   OSF-RFC 87.0             DCE 1.2 Global Groups             December 1995



      For a multi-cell group application program communicating with a DCE
      1.2.2 security server via a pre-DCE 1.2.2 client, users may get a
      "Registry object not found" error from a global name in the member
      operations.  Taking the example of `dcecp' as the client, pre-DCE
      1.2.2 `dcecp' parses out the cell name from the global name and
      passes only the shorthand local name to the server.  If locally such
      a shorthand principal name exists, then this will create an incorrect
      result (e.g., adding this local principal as a member of the group).
      If no such shorthand principal exists locally, the error mentioned
      ("Registry object not found") will be returned.

      There has always been a placeholder for foreign groups in PAC's and
      EPAC's, and the 1.0.x and 1.1 pickling/encoding routines are already
      there. Therefore a pre-DCE 1.2.2 client should be able to acquire
      foreign group in its PAC's or EPAC's from a DCE 1.2.2 security
      server.  Since there has been a bug found in the 1.0.x foreign group
      pickling routine (fixed in DCE1.1), suppliers of DCE 1.0.x will need
      to ship a patch of `libdce' with this fix.  Without this fix, DCE
      1.0.x based applications may crash if they encounter a foreign group
      in a PAC.


   14. STANDARDS

      This work is compatible with the AES/DC Security Volume.


   15. OPEN ISSUES

      None identified.


   AUTHORS' ADDRESSES

   Hanfei Yu                           Internet email: hanfei@apollo.hp.com
   Hewlett Packard                               Telephone: +1-508-436-4935
   300 Apollo Drive
   Chelmsford, MA 01824
   USA

   Michael Burati                      Internet email: burati@apollo.hp.com
   Hewlett Packard                               Telephone: +1-508-436-4351
   300 Apollo Drive
   Chelmsford, MA 01824
   USA









   Yu, Burati                                                        Page 7




